Kanyon was challenged to explain how the
first proteins could have been assembled
without the help of genetic instructions
in living cells today chains of amino
acids are not formed directly by forces
of attraction between their parts the
scenario kenyon envisioned on the early
earth instead another large molecule
within the cell stores instructions for
sequencing the amino acids in proteins
it is called DNA
initially Kenyon believed the proteins
could have formed directly from amino
acids without any DNA assembly
instructions and and that's why so many
scientists were excited about his theory
but the more he and others learned about
the properties of amino acids and
proteins the more he began to doubt that
proteins could self assemble without DNA
in DNA Kenyon encountered a molecule
with a property he could not explain
through natural processes for locked
securely within its double helix
structure is a wealth of information in
the form of precisely sequenced
chemicals that scientists represent with
the letters a C T and G in a written
language information is communicated by
a precise arrangement of letters in the
same way the instructions necessary to
assemble amino acids into proteins are
conveyed by the sequences of chemicals
arranged along the spine of the DNA this
chemical code has been called the
language of life and it is the most
densely packed and elaborately detailed
assembly of information in the known
universe like other scientists working
on the origin of life Kenyon realized he
had two choices either he had to explain
where these genetic assembly
instructions came from or he had to
explain how proteins could have arisen
directly from amino acids without DNA in
the primordial oceans and in the end he
realized he could deny them
it's an enormous problem how you could
get together in one tiny sub microscopic
volume of the primitive ocean all of the
hundreds of different molecular
components you would need in order for a
self-replicating cycle to be established
and so my doubts about whether amino
acids could order themselves into
meaningful biological sequences on their
own without pre-existing genetic
material being present just reached I
guess for me the intellectual breaking
point sometime near the end of the
decade of the 70s as Kenyon re-evaluated
his theory new biochemical discoveries
further weakened his conviction that
amino acids could have organized
themselves into proteins the more I
conducted my own studies including a
period of time at NASA Ames Research
Center the more it became apparent that
there were multiple difficulties with
the chemical evolution account and
further experimental work showed that
amino acids do not have the ability to
order themselves into any biologically
meaningful sequences
faced with mounting difficulties in his
own theory and a growing body of
scientific data about the importance of
DNA Kenyon was forced to confront the
absolute necessity of genetic
information the more I thought about the
alternative that was being presented in
the criticism and the enormous problem
that all of us who worked on this field
had neglected to address the problem of
the origin of genetic information itself
then I really had to reassess my whole
position regarding regarding origins for
Dean Kenyon a new question became the
focus of his search for life's origin
what was the source of the biological
information in DNA if one could get at
the origin of the messages the encoded
messages within the living machinery
then you would really be on to something
far more intellectually satisfying than
this chemical evolution theory
you